>> LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
We are broadcasting from
the Conscious Life Expo
here in Los Angeles,
and joining me is Kaya.
Kaya communicates with
the angelic realm.
He wrote a book called
"The Source Code," which
is a dictionary for
dreams, signs, and symbols.
Welcome to the show.
Thank you for being here.
>> KAYA: Thank
you for having me.
>> LISA: So it wasn't
always like this for you.
You didn't write a book about
dreams, signs, and symbols
from the beginning of
your life, did you?
You had a big recording
contract, a musical recording
contract in Canada, right?
>> KAYA: Yes.
For over 20 years I
was a recording artist
with Sony Music in Canada.
And my life started
to change completely
in the middle of this
immense success that I had.
And I was like, I'm
feeling all alone.
>> LISA: Were you not happy
with your life at the time?
Or was it not true
to who you are?
>> KAYA: I would say that I
was kind of-- the superficial
aspect of show business, for
me, was not attracting me.
And it was creating
lots of questions
during that period of time.
And I started to receive dreams,
very, very intense dreams
and nightmares.
And this started to be so
incredible and so intense
that I just wanted to
know more about them.
>> LISA: What were
the dreams about?
Were they terrifying,
or were they peaceful?
>> KAYA: Some of the first
dreams that started the whole
process-- because then after
I started to receive 10 to 50
dreams every night.
>> LISA: And you
remembered all of them.
>> KAYA: Yes.
And I still do that after almost
20 years now, every night.
So for me, the day, it's a rest
time, because during the night
you can travel in
multi dimensions,
and you can help people.
You can heal people also.
We have immense potential
within ourselves.
So I remember that first dream.
I went for a nap
Saturday afternoon.
And in my dream, it
was so beautiful.
There was a blacksmith that was
up in the sky behind a veil.
It was all in gold,
and he was so luminous.
And it was like I've
always knew him.
And he was like an angel.
And then he said to
me, are you ready?
And I said, ready for what?
And he said, are you ready?
We start again.
So I said, but we
start again what?
And I was looking up at the sky.
And then after that
dream, I started
to receive intense nightmares.
And now I know what a
blacksmith means in a dream,
because my conscience was
forged, completely transformed
for months and years.
And this led me to
become a hermit.
>> LISA: What does
the blacksmith mean?
What did you mean by that?
>> KAYA: A blacksmith is
a symbol of transforming,
of forging.
So it was forging my
consciousness, like the hammer.
It was kind of in my
head and in my energy
with different thoughts and
combinations of who I was
and what was about to become.
So it was a mixture of
very, very intense states
of consciousness that
I was going through.
>> LISA: Was it like
a purging process?
>> KAYA: Yes, it was
initiations, major,
major initiations
that lasted for many,
many months and years.
So I've decided to walk
away from fame and glory
because I was so interested
also in the notions of dreams.
For me, it was like
my new musical child.
Because I was doing that
career for over 20 years or so.
I was very famous,
and I had the life
that everybody can dream of.
But it was not enough.
Even if I had all this abundance
and money and everything,
I was searching for
something more deeper.
>> LISA: It was unfulfilling.
>> KAYA: And even when I was
an artist, as a musical artist,
everything that was important
for me was to help people.
This was always there in me.
And I was not the kind
of person going in bars
and having fun with people.
So I was praying in
my room before a show.
I was very alone in this world.
So it started to
be very intense,
and all the questioning.
But when the dreams started,
it was so beautiful.
And I just wanted to know more.
And then I just plunged in my
unconscious for years and years
to understand the Source Code.
>> LISA: Now were any of your
songs about healing or angels
or loneliness or anything?
>> KAYA: Yes.
Yes.
The last song that I
wrote was from a very
profound experience.
It's called "Finally Free."
And I remember that
because, as an artist,
I was helping children.
So it was very important for me.
I was going very often
to hospitals to help them
and for those who were in the
transfers of death, et cetera.
So I was there with
them and discussing.
So I got a call
from a young woman.
She was 19 years old, and she
was about to die from cancer.
And she said to my
agent at the time
that she needed to see me
because she saw me in a dream.
And it was very
important because she
had a message for me.
So I took the first plane
to go and visit her,
and I had one of the most
profound afternoons of my life.
And so she revealed things to
me that are still secrets today.
And it was explaining the
process of transformation
that I was going through.
>> LISA: So it was the
first time it was made real
by someone else.
>> KAYA: That's correct.
>> LISA: Mmm.
That was really,
really the first time
that someone was
putting words in what I
was feeling since
I was a little boy.
Because for me, I was
always in meditation,
even when I was
four, five years old.
>> LISA: Really?
>> KAYA: I started to sing
in church at six years old.
So my life was very focused
on connecting with myself
all the time.
>> LISA: Did you ever see
her again in your dreams?
>> KAYA: What
happened, actually,
is after that meeting
that we had together,
two weeks after she passed away.
So it was very, very intense.
And during that night, she
came to visit me in a dream.
>> LISA: She did?
>> KAYA: And she
came to thank me.
And she said to me that
they had a gift for me.
So she brought me in
a large black room,
and there was a long table.
And in the middle of the
table, there was a square.
It was like a mirror.
And in the mirror, I was able
to see the tunnel of light
that we see when we die.
It was so beautiful,
crystal blues,
colors that I have never
seen here on Earth.
And she said to me, normally
you have to die to see this.
>> LISA: Oh.
>> KAYA: So she said, you will
have seen it while you are
alive, so don't be shy.
Talk about it.
Your life's going
to be changing,
and you're going to be
helping the world eventually
with the knowledge
that you are going
to bring from that experience.
So then I woke up
in the morning.
It was kind of so int--
so I was in tears of joy.
And I've never been the
same since that time.
Because when we have
these kinds of experience,
the lights are so powerful that
all your cells are transformed.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> KAYA: So this created major,
major reflections about life.
I started to receive 10
to 50 dreams every night.
And it's still
there until today.
>> LISA: The song "Finally
Free," did that come from her?
>> KAYA: Yes.
It's the story.
>> LISA: The words?
>> KAYA: In this song, I talk
about this meeting and this
encounter that I had with her.
>> LISA: Now can I ask you about
the symbols and how you receive
these symbols?
In the book "The Source
Code," all the symbols
that you've written
about you have
obtained from the dream world?
>> KAYA: That's correct.
That's correct.
I started to, because
of all these dreams,
I was just fascinating, and so I
started to be like a scientist,
writing everything and living
as a hermit for many years
all alone.
So in my country, everyone
thought that I was crazy.
It was all on the
front page of magazines
and everybody was kind
of talking about this.
I was not able to explain
what was happening.
I didn't even know that
I would write about this.
I just wanted to know
myself, to cleanse my soul.
And for me, it was a direct
communication with God,
because dreams are
the language of God.
And through symbolic
language, we
can understand that our
life is also like a dream.
So one day we can use symbolic
language not only in dreams
but also in our
day-to-day realities.
So I started to work and travel.
And I remember the first
time that I received
a connection that was
helping me to write
"The Source Code,"
this dictionary, today.
I was so intense
in the knowledge,
just wanted to know more.
So I remember the symbol.
It was like the table.
I had a table in a dream,
a very simple symbol.
And I was like, what is
the meaning of the table?
And I was thinking and
thinking and thinking.
And I was so intense
asking, what's
the meaning of this symbol?
And then I was kind of very
intense during that time,
because I was staying in
bed for 20 hours a day
for months and
months and months.
>> LISA: To get
back to that state?
>> KAYA: Yeah.
I just wanted to dream.
That's all I wanted.
I was a little bit extreme,
I have to be honest.
>> LISA: Yeah.
>> KAYA: I don't advise
anyone or anybody to do that,
because I could have
lost myself completely.
I could have lost myself.
But I just wanted to dream more.
I was not interested in life
anymore for a period of time.
And I just wanted to go there
and see that tunnel of light
and continue to experiment this
connection and this knowledge.
So I was kind of
repeating, what's
the meaning of the
table and table?
And it was like an equation.
Like a mathematician, I
was trying to make the code
and understand this reality.
And then suddenly
I started to dream.
And in my dream I
was in a classroom.
And then there was a teacher,
and he said, all right,
today we're just going to talk
about the symbol of the table.
And then he wrote the
definition on the board,
and I was able to
remember the definition.
>> LISA: Oh.
>> KAYA: And then I
just woke up from that.
It was like, wow.
And then I've discovered that
the more our intentions are
strong, the more we can
travel in parallel worlds
and go to get the
answer that we need.
So in the Bible or in many
spiritual texts in the world,
it says, just ask
and you will receive.
But we don't know how to ask.
>> LISA: No.
>> KAYA: We need to focus.
Because when we ask
something, sometimes we
have 20 thoughts
at the same time.
>> LISA: Right.
>> KAYA: So we disperse ourself.
We disperse ourself
in our realities also.
But we do it also in our
mind and in our hearts.
So the more we
meditate, the more
we do focus, the
more then we can
go exactly where we need to
go and where we need to be.
And at that period
of time, this is
where I started to
do angelic mantras,
to focus and to
dream more and more
and to go where I just wanted
to go and to find the answers.
>> LISA: What is
an angelic mantra?
>> KAYA: So that's a beautiful
experience also and beautiful
story.
Because I met my wife
Christiane because my story
was all over the paper
everywhere in Canada.
And so I went in a
bookstore in the morning
just to get an answer from--
I was searching for symbols.
And I had a dream
with King Solomon,
and I was in the
time of Jerusalem
in front of the Ark
of the Covenant.
And there was a
princess that was there,
and there was a marriage
that was about to happen.
They were all in
precious stones.
It was so beautiful,
so beautiful.
>> LISA: So you went to
look up that time period?
>> KAYA: Yes.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> KAYA: So I just wanted
to know a little more about
the King Solomon, because I
didn't know exactly who he was.
I knew he was from
the Bible, but I
don't come from a
very religious family,
so I didn't know all of this.
So I just wanted to know more.
I went to a church at
7:00 AM in the morning,
but the church was closed.
So I needed to wait at 10:00
AM to go to a bookstore
to get information
about King Solomon.
>> LISA: Now do you believe that
you traveled to a parallel time
where King Solomon
existed in your dream?
>> KAYA: That's a very,
very interesting question.
Because in parallel worlds,
sometimes you can travel
and the symbols
are representations
of your own consciousness,
because they represent
qualities and weaknesses
or forces of capacities
of yourself.
So we had at our table,
at our booth today,
there was a man that
came to the table.
And he said, it's so funny.
I always have dreams
with the presidents.
The President of
the United States,
sometimes he's there
with the presidents
of Australia and whatever.
There's many people at the same
time, these powerful people.
And he was a CPA and everything.
So he said, I'm just a CPA.
And I said, oh, yeah,
but you know what?
When you have your clients,
it's very easy for you
to talk to very powerful people.
Because if you do
this in the dream,
then you can talk about politics
and important decisions,
et cetera, and you will feel
very, very at ease with that.
And probably you meet
millionaires, et cetera,
and you don't feel
disturbed by that.
You are like, these
are normal people.
And you are a person that can
connect with major decisions.
So he was kind of
looking at me [GASPS].
So I said, they are part of you.
So the President of
the United States,
at the present time when you
receive that in the morning,
it is you also.
You are the president,
and you are yourself.
You're meeting a part of you,
potential that you have within.
So in parallel worlds,
sometimes we visit ourself.
But sometimes also we can
travel in time in the past,
in the present,
or in the future,
and we can see and
meet through realities.
So both aspects are possible.
>> LISA: So you see aspects
of your consciousness,
but you can also travel in
parallel universes as yourself
in another space and time.
>> KAYA: That's correct, yes.
And you can help people.
You can heal people.
You can see information
that are probabilities
that are in preparations
to be manifested.
>> LISA: And I want to
learn about how you set
your intentions before you
go into that dream state.
But I wanted you
to finish the story
about King Solomon and your
wife and how you met your wife.
>> KAYA: So I got to this
book shop at 10:00 AM
in the morning.
And then the owner
of the bookshop
knew a little bit of my story,
because I was the hermit now,
the crazy man of the village.
And the village is a big one.
It's a country.
So then he saw
me, and he said, I
know someone that
knows about symbols.
She's from Switzerland.
She just arrived in the
region, so maybe you
can have a chat with her.
So I said, all right.
He said, give me
your phone number,
and I'll see if she
wants to share with you
and discuss with you.
So then the connection was done.
And then, just a day
after, I spoke with her.
And it was like I've
always knew her.
And then I started
to open myself more.
Because most of the
time when I was talking
people were a little bit afraid.
And I went--
>> LISA: You finally found
someone you could talk to.
>> KAYA: --a priest.
I went to see everybody.
I just wanted to know about
all these dreams and all,
because I had powerful
initiations sometimes,
powerful nightmares, and
also beautiful dreams.
And so it was all
mixed up sometimes,
so it took me a long time
to put that in order.
>> LISA: Did you at any time
feel like you were going crazy
or losing your mind?
>> KAYA: No.
Never, never.
I felt like I was meeting God.
>> LISA: Wow.
>> KAYA: I really felt
that from the beginning.
And I knew the
nightmares right away--
it was like there was this
knowledge that was already
in me.
And every time that
I was doing a step,
it was like I knew this process.
I knew this process
of transformation.
So I based myself on
prayers and meditation.
And for me, it was a
purification process,
and nightmares were
there to make me stronger
and not to make me weak.
>> LISA: And not to scare
you but yet to de-layer you
in a way, your psyche.
So, how do you teach--
Well, I actually
want to go back to the angels,
the names of the angels.
>> KAYA: Yes.
So my wife at that time,
for almost two years
we were friends, and she
was like a sister for me.
I received in dream that
she would be my wife.
And I was even talking to God.
Are you testing me again?
Because I was like a monk,
and I thought that, for me,
being with someone was over.
Because I just wanted
to serve humanity,
and I just wanted to dream more
and to understand myself more.
So I was really, really
in intense meditation.
So she was about to
share her own research
about the traditional
study of angels, which
is the origin of
angels as we know them
in our Christian
and Jewish faith.
So all the names, we
know Michael, Gabriel,
Raphael, but at the
origin there were
72 angels and 10 archangels.
And all these
names are connected
to pure qualities
and powers of God.
So an angel is not a
person at the origin.
>> LISA: Oh.
>> KAYA: It is a quality.
>> LISA: It's a vibration?
>> KAYA: It's a vibration.
It's a state of consciousness
that represents powers.
When she presented that, for me
dreams were all my equations,
and I was living in dream state.
So I automatically
associated angels
with dreams, because
it's a human with wings.
So wings are the
representation of our capacity
to dream and to travel
in the multidimensions
of our consciousness,
to develop clairvoyance,
clairsentience, clairaudience,
develop our spiritual powers.
And she shared with me
that she was doing mantras
with the names of the angels,
because she studied yoga
in India, and she
was a therapist,
and she started to do
the angelic mantras.
And at the beginning,
she didn't know
that it would start intense
initiations and the capacity
to open the consciousness
in such an intense way.
So then, for me,
it was kind of wow.
It was--
>> LISA: A whole nother level.
>> KAYA: Oh, yes.
And so she gave
me this knowledge.
She presented to
Because the 72 angels were
rediscovered only in 1975
in Girona, Spain.
And it was hidden
for over 500 years
because of the Inquisition.
And the origin of
angels have been
rediscovered at
that period of time.
>> LISA: Through texts?
>> KAYA: Yes, through texts
that were written in Hebrew,
Catalan, and Spanish.
It was a mixture of
languages to keep it secret.
And then she has been in contact
with the first books that
have been just
written about that,
and they were not very popular.
They were just
explaining the angels
more in a sort of astrology
way of having qualities,
et cetera, developing qualities.
But she started to do the
mantra because of the yoga
and because of the
meditation, and then it
started to do an extraordinary
spiritual path that
was like creating a spiritual
autonomy to receive answers
from within.
So right away, she showed me the
72 angels, and in three weeks,
right after we met
for the first time,
I started even to do the
mantras of all the 72 angels
all in cycles.
I was very intense.
>> LISA: Could you share with
us some of the names that came
through?
>> KAYA: Yes, of course.
Yes.
So the angel number one is
Vehuiah, so Jeliel, Sitael,
Elemiah, Mahasiah, Melahel,
Lelahel, Chevakiah.
All these names are
very, very ancient
from the beginning of time.
And it's even what
the lost treasure
of the alliance that
people-- the Ark of Covenant
is the 72 angels.
And this is why I had this
dream with the King Solomon.
Because by meeting
my wife, I was
about to discover the
knowledge of the ancient time
about angels.
And so then I started to
do mantras intensively,
and I started to
receive dreams that
were associated with the
angels that I was working with.
Because an angel is a
state of consciousness.
So Vehuiah, for example,
is related to divine power.
It's related to divine
will, our capacity
to begin something, one,
the one, who we are.
We start a new way.
Two is Jeliel, relationship
with others, love, wisdom.
It's the notions
of relationship.
Three, it's like mom,
dad, and a child.
It's a construction.
So all the numbers are not
just there by coincidence.
They are the fundamental
aspects of numerology.
>> LISA: And you started
to put all this together.
You were discovering the
great mystery of the world.
>> KAYA: It was amazing.
>> LISA: Wow.
And I truly believe now--
because now in the United
States this is very
new, this teaching.
But now we have millions
of students, my wife and I,
in many, many countries
around the world that
are doing angel mantras like us.
And they have their own path,
their own spiritual autonomy,
their own dreams and
their own capacity
to discover their
spiritual capacities.
Even children, they can do
that, and it creates a focus
so they have dreams that are
related to their questions,
because you can ask a question.
So it's very amazing.
>> LISA: Can you teach us how
to do that, what you just did?
It sounded like the
most beautiful song.
>> KAYA: Yes.
Oh, yes.
It is.
Angel mantras are extraordinary.
For example,
Michael, so we can--
Mikhael, Mikhael, Mikhael,
Mikhael, oh, Mikhael,
Mikhael, Mikhael.
We can sing it.
We can do it in
silence, especially
if you're in the bus.
I recommend not to do it
out loud, unless you may--
>> LISA: Make some
instant friends.
>> KAYA: Yes, exactly.
But you can do this while you do
meditation, you do the dishes,
you do sports.
Whatever you do,
you have the mantra.
And this is what I was talking
about, creating a focus,
a concentration.
>> LISA: A calling
in of that vibration.
>> KAYA: Exactly.
And all your cells
are integrating
angelic consciousness.
And then, for me now,
I truly believe--
and I can say that in
front of the camera
with all my heart and soul--
that I think that being human
is not enough.
>> LISA: Ah.
Explain that.
What do you mean?
>> KAYA: We're all here to
become angels, to develop.
All of us, we're all here to
discover our spiritual powers
and capacities.
And one day, when
you receive dreams
and you're able to
understand them,
it's like you have no more
limitations of your spirit.
>> LISA: To even bring in that
consciousness of these angelic
beings, it must have
felt overwhelming to you.
Or was it just a knowing?
Was it a peace?
What was that feeling?
>> KAYA: At the beginning,
it was not a peace.
Because we have to understand
that when we start to do mantra
there's human
distortions that are
linked to the angelic qualities.
>> LISA: What do you mean?
>> KAYA: An angel is a pure
state of consciousness of God.
But us, we are not perfect.
So when we start to
invoke the angel,
then we have to
transform our unconscious
and cleanse the memories.
Because our soul is
like a living computer.
We record positive
and negative memories
throughout our experiences.
So when we start
to invoke an angel,
then you start to
receive sometimes
very intense purification
dreams and nightmares that
are explaining in sort of
percentage what you have inside
of us that you need to
transform so then you
will reach to angelic qualities.
Because in physics we say that
everything can be transformed.
Nothing loses itself.
It's always a
transformation of energy.
So being impatient, the
only way to become patient,
to have more patience is
to cleanse the impatience--
>> LISA: Were you cleansing--
>> KAYA: --because
it's the same energy.
>> LISA: --not only your own
consciousness but, for lack
of a better word, the
consciousness of man?
Were you cleansing and
purifying human consciousness
at the same time?
>> KAYA: Yes.
You have a very
profound question.
At the beginning,
of course, we enter
in our personal unconscious
and family unconscious.
And then you need to
visit these memories.
But the more you go deeper
and deeper in the work,
in angel work, the
more you reach a level
of the consciousness of
humanity and even the forces
that you integrate in you.
But also you need
to visit initiations
and major negativity.
>> LISA: I understand.
Not completely, but I understand
what you're talking about.
So how would we use
this in our daily life,
not from a way of wanting
to create the red car?
But how do you create and
manifest in your daily life,
and how do you teach
people to do this?
>> KAYA: So it's a very simple
work to start to do angel
mantras.
You start to do it, and you
have to be very intense.
Because the more you
concentrate yourself,
the more you discipline
your consciousness,
the more you have results.
It's like in life.
If you don't work,
you don't have money.
So if you don't
do inner work, you
don't have spiritual energy
at a very high level.
And a lot of people are
using spirituality--
it's more like a
spiritual vacation.
So they do not marry
spirit and matter.
There's a discrepancy,
a major one.
>> LISA: Where you
have that experience,
and then you go
back to your life.
>> KAYA: Yeah, Sunday they're
doing community service.
They go to church.
They are wonderful citizen.
And then the rest of the
week they just do business,
and they are not
necessarily right.
They're competing.
They're always trying
to-- ambitions,
et cetera, greed, and everything
can be part of their life.
I think that life is a
spiritual experience.
We're only here to
marry spirit and matter.
We are a test.
We are being tested every time.
And for me, my life
now is like a dream.
You are a part of me.
I am a part of you.
We are now experimenting
a state of consciousness
of communication, of
sharing with the world.
So everything is
based on evolution,
on qualities, the
development qualities,
the improvement of who we are.
So it's a long process.
It's a long process,
but it's easy.
People can start to
do angel mantras.
Then if they don't
dream, after two or three
weeks of very intense
mantras, they're
going to start to
receive their own dreams.
And that's amazing.
>> LISA: How do you
remember those dreams?
I'm sure you get asked
this question all the time.
>> KAYA: You need to
cleanse the needs,
the personal needs of the humans
that we have inside of us.
Some people are
sometimes too tired.
They wake up in the
middle of the night,
and they say, oh, I had
a dream, but, ooh, I'm
so tired, and this and this.
So I say to these people,
God is talking to you.
>> LISA: Listen.
>> KAYA: It's like, listen.
Come on.
You cannot say I'm too tired.
You've been praying
to have this opening.
Then you receive a
dream, and then you're
too tired to write it down.
So get an iPad and do it.
I do it on iPad.
I'm a very modern sage,
so I do it with my iPad.
And it's like the little--
>> LISA: It's light.
>> KAYA: I have a tablet, and I
have the light and everything,
and I write this down.
And then I just do it in a sense
where you just keep yourself
between, just in between.
You don't wake up yourself.
You don't try to analyze
your dream right away.
You just put it down.
I think it's just
a question of focus
and of saying to yourself,
this is so important.
>> LISA: And practice.
I'm sure the more--
>> KAYA: And practice.
>> LISA: --you do it, yeah.
>> KAYA: And the more
your willpower, you know,
the more you want
to be connected,
the more the
connection is stronger.
>> LISA: And then
when you wake up,
you could look in the book for
some of the symbols that come
to you through the dream?
>> KAYA: Yes.
>> LISA: What do you hear are
some of the themes that seem
to be coming through?
Because if what
you're saying is true
and the angelic realm
is truly communicating
through our
consciousness, are there
messages that they're trying to
communicate through to humanity
or that this vibration that's
raising wants us to know about?
>> KAYA: The first
real message--
You're going to laugh.
The first real message that the
angels are giving us in dreams
is toilets.
>> LISA: Toilets.
>> KAYA: We receive
dreams of purification.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> KAYA: Some people are just
having angelic experiences with
great lines and saying,
all right, the universe,
and there's a change
of time of humanity.
But at the same time, we need
to marry spirit and matter.
And to become what we
connect when we challenge
and when we are in sync
with these great principles
and values, we need
then to integrate them.
And then it creates a
major transformation in us.
It's good to say
something beautiful.
But to live it,
it's another thing.
>> LISA: Can you connect
with that vibration during
the waking day and not
necessarily always in the dream
state?
>> KAYA: Yes.
Eventually, with
the angelic work,
we receive lucid
dreams all the time.
>> LISA: OK.
>> KAYA: For me, I have
integrated the Source Code
in me.
>> LISA: You have?
>> KAYA: So for me, I
see symbols everywhere.
>> LISA: Such as?
>> KAYA: States
of consciousness.
Let's say, for
me, there's always
a connection that can happen.
I can see someone
walking in a certain way.
I know what state
of consciousness
he's got inside of him just
by the way he's walking.
Just the way that a
person's going to dress,
then you can understand
certain aspects
of the personality,
the great outlines.
So there are signs everywhere.
You go in an
apartment, for example.
The decoration of an apartment
is the representation
of the intimate
aspects of the soul.
>> LISA: I see.
>> KAYA: Because you create
yourself through matter.
So we can understand
symbols, and then you
can see the essence that
people have in them.
>> LISA: So you're not walking
around seeing keys and stars
and crosses.
You're seeing energy as a whole.
>> KAYA: I can talk to
someone, for example,
and then I can have a
vision at the same time.
It's so intense that
it's so natural for me.
I can see a bear.
>> LISA: And then
you communicate it.
>> KAYA: Let's say the person is
talking, and then I see a bear.
>> LISA: I see.
>> KAYA: And then I know that
the person's got intense needs.
And of course she's going
to be talking intensively.
[GRUMBLING AND GROWLING]
And the essence of the bear
will be in the person
at that present time.
So I can hear words.
I can have songs.
I can have a vision.
I can sense things.
All my senses are now
very, very, very open.
The angelic consciousness, when
you develop it, it's amazing.
And of course you can
anticipate life, future.
>> LISA: Yeah.
About the themes, did
you notice that there
were themes coming in?
Did you answer that?
Because I might have gone into
another realm at that moment.
>> KAYA: Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's say I'm a secret
agent now of the universe--
>> LISA: OK.
>> KAYA: --in a sense that
the more you go deep inside
and the more you open yourself,
the more you have a lot
of secrets.
You know a lot of
things about the future.
And it's important not to
reveal these information most
of the time.
You can participate.
You can help.
You can understand
people, because you
have seen what's going
to happen to them.
But sometimes we have to respect
the life plan of the person.
And we really need to make
sure before we interfere
in a program to make sure it's
going to be right to do that.
Unless they're just going
to cut the information,
you're not going to
get the information.
Because if something
has to happen
for a person and that
person because of that
she will be managing a
multinational nonprofit
organization to help people
that have cancer, for example,
and she's going to bring
such a beautiful message
on the planet, so maybe she's
going through that illness.
It is difficult.
She doesn't see what is going
to happen for her in the future.
But then you can
see that in dream,
and then you can understand
the process of difficulties,
that evil is educational,
that nightmares
and even difficulties
in life are the same.
They are a challenge, and they
are there to help us to evolve.
So to have access to
knowledge, we really
need to master good and evil in
the sense where we understand
it as an educational process
and not as a punishment.
>> LISA: So in terms of
the future of our world,
you wouldn't be able to really
say what you've seen because it
could be too shocking and
jarring and we need to go
through the process?
>> KAYA: Sometimes.
We can talk about
it sometimes, yes.
But sometimes not.
It's, ah, it's really
important to-- I receive--
I do premonitory
dreams every night.
>> LISA: What kind of dreams?
>> KAYA: Even this TV show,
I was with some of you during
the night.
I knew your faces already.
So this is normal for me
to see in advance people
that I'm going to meet.
Because our soul,
there's a meeting.
There's something.
There's a connection.
And if the universe wants that
this thing will happen, then
in dreams you can
visit the thoughts
of probabilities of
what's going to happen.
And then you can see the energy.
You can see the
attraction, the affinities.
And then you can deal
with that information
to manifest yourself well.
>> LISA: What is your
overall message with this?
What is the goal that
you want to communicate
to people about this type of
symbolism and communication
and the Source Code?
>> KAYA: I think symbolic
language is one of the most
and will be...
in the future will be one of
the most important knowledge
for humanity.
Because with symbolic language,
you can interpret your dreams.
You can have access to
a spiritual autonomy.
But also, with
symbolic language,
you can analyze the
drawings of your child.
You can understand when
the child is talking
with incoherent aspects but
he's talking in symbols.
You can understand that
if you talk to your spouse
and he's just mad because the
New York Rangers lost a game,
you understand that he's
talking about himself.
He's not talking
about the Rangers.
He's talking about his capacity
to win and to succeed in life.
He's talking always
about himself.
People are always talking
in symbols all the time.
They are working, they are
loving, they are caring,
they are helping
for the only reason
to experiment and to develop
and improve themselves
through their realities.
>> LISA: And to expand.
>> KAYA: And to expand.
>> LISA: Do you see that most
people that you come in contact
with have that innate
desire to love?
Or do you see that there is a
fall from that grace in people?
>> KAYA: You see love.
There's multidimensions to love.
Some people think
they love, but they
are going through a process
of infidelity with someone.
>> LISA: Right.
>> KAYA: And they say they
love, but at the same time
they're breaking the life of
someone and of the children.
And they are just,
like, at the restaurant
with the beautiful
candles, and they
don't understand
that it is not love.
It is an illusion of love.
So a lot of people,
they do not know.
So this is why we have
veil in our consciousness.
Veils are there to help us.
There's a law in
the universe that
is called illusion
is educational.
It's very important.
A person will be
in her own bubble,
and she's going to think that
she's right, that she's really,
really having a great life.
But it's not
necessarily the same
if you look at in a perspective
of angelic qualities.
So this is why you
see through that--
Let's say you meet your friend,
and she's just saying to you,
I'm in love.
I just fall in love.
When you use the
word fall in love,
it's like, hmm, you're
going to have problems,
because falling you're
going to hurt yourself.
So even in symbolic lang--
in the words that we use,
we talk about ourself.
We talk about our fears.
Sometimes we just
the word awesome.
>> LISA: How-some?
>> KAYA: Awesome?
When we say this is awesome.
>> LISA: Awesome, yes.
Yes.
>> KAYA: When you analyze
it, it's like, oh.
You see?
So all the words that
sometimes we say,
we are so happy to succeed
that at the same time
we fear of not succeeding,
so we use words
that are inverse of what
we really want to say.
So it's quite interesting.
When you know
symbolic language--
>> LISA: You must look at things
in such a different way than
most people.
And it must be such
a fascinating life
as well, to go through seeing
things in such a different way.
>> KAYA: Yes.
>> LISA: I appreciate
you being here.
And your book, it's immense,
and your symbols are incredible.
All of this came
from the dream space.
It's just incredible.
Thank you so much for sharing.
>> KAYA: It's been a great joy.
>> LISA: Sharing your knowledge,
sharing your experience
and your essence with
us and your treasurers.
>> KAYA: Thank you.
>> LISA: Thank you so much.
>> LISA: And if you would
like to watch a replay
of my interview with Kaya,
you can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.